\chapter{Visualization System \label{ch:visualizer}}

Regardless of whether high-dimensional data visualization methods are
computationally heavy or interaction heavy, user interactivity is a critical
component of the analysis; it is simply a question of what 
degree~\cite{lius2016}. It is not enough to simply have user interaction, 
however. Given $n$ variables, there are a total of ${n \choose 2} = n(n-1)/2$ 
possible scatter plots of the data. This blows up quadratically as $n$ 
increases, which is infeasible for the analyst to sort through in any 
reasonable amount of time. Subsequently, automation is another necessary 
element in the task of visualizing high dimensional datasets.

We develop a system that first learns what visual patterns the data analyst 
finds promising, querying the user where the decision boundary is ambiguous. It 
then automatically iterates through all possible pairwise scatter plots and 
returns an adjacency matrix that captures the classification of each pair. 
Classifications are binary where the label 1 indicates ``visually correlated'' 
and the label 0 indicates ``not visually correlated''. The VS may then return 
the top ``visually correlated'' scatter plots for the user, perform line-up 
tests to refine the classifier (see Section~\ref{sec:futurework:lineup}), 
and/or compare the visual graph with some numerical graph(s) of the user's 
choice. This allows analysts to compare and contrast visual feedback with 
numerical algorithms for improved model selection. 
Figure~\ref{fig:visualizer:vs} is a visual summarization of the system.
       
\begin{figure}[htb]
	\begin{center}
		\includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{ch-visualizer/figures/vs}
		\caption[Broad overview of the visualization system.]{Broad overview of 
		the visualization system.}
		\label{fig:visualizer:vs}
	\end{center}
\end{figure}

Section~\ref{sec:visualizer:scatterplot} describes characteristics of an 
interesting scatter plot; incorporating these ideas in the VS facilitates user 
accuracy in stage 1. 
Sections~\ref{sec:visualizer:al} and~\ref{sec:visualizer:plotgeneration} 
provide a brief overview of stages 1 and 2, respectively, and 
Section~\ref{sec:visualizer:plotgeneration:output} describes the VS output.
Section~\ref{sec:visualizer:focus} describes the focuses of the rest of this 
thesis, which respond to the problems and application posed in 
Chapter~\ref{ch:intro}.

\input{ch-visualizer/scatterplot}
\input{ch-visualizer/al}
\input{ch-visualizer/plotgeneration}
\input{ch-visualizer/focus}
