%The importance of visualization.

Although this paper has focused on its financial applications, visualization
systems nevertheless enable better decisions during any sort of data analysis.
In the univariate case (Section \ref{sec:intro:me1}, \ref{sec:intro:me2}), it is
clear that plotting has augmented the data analysis process by allowing the user
to double-check their fitted models. In higher dimensions with more complex data
sets and an inability to plot everything, it is even more believable that
numerical methods cannot completely replace the valuable information obtained
from visual methods. The visualization system developed in this text provides a
way to safeguard data analysts against their own biases.

This visualization tool is one important step in streamlining the future of
clean analysis. It provides a systematic way for confirming and suggesting
dependencies among variables that match the analyst's concepts of a dependent
(or ``interesting'' plot) and produces an explicit decision tree that allow
others to understand and replicate the data analysis process. This removes the
tediousness associated with high-dimensional data and allows the user to quickly
see ways in which the numerical model may have fallen short of the ``true''
relationship between variables. In other words, it systematically provides the
user a way to validate their methodology and model selection. Furthermore, it
improves accountability in the analysis as it allows the decision-making process
(in the form of a decision tree) to be clearer to those reviewing the results.
Nevertheless, the graphical model that we develop is not fool proof, and further
work can be done to refine the model and improve our concept of ``clean
analysis.''