\chapter{Active learning \label{ch:al}}

Active learning is a subset of machine learning wherein an algorithm is 
``trained'' on labeled data instances in order to learn from and make 
predictions on the data.  Consider a large set of unlabeled data $X$ with a 
hidden label from a finite set $Y$ that can be queried from some human 
``oracle''; we would like to learn a good classifier of the data, some mapping 
$h: X \rightarrow Y$ from the set $\mathcal{H}$ without making too many 
queries~\cite{dasgupta2011}. Active learning is the process of intelligently 
selecting the queries (a constrained resource) to learn as much as possible. 
When a learning algorithm is allowed to choose its next query, it performs 
better with less training~\cite{settles2010}. To put it more concretely, the 
error (a measurement of the difference between the predicted labels and the 
``true'' labels) converges to zero faster. This property is especially 
desirable when labeled data are difficult, time-consuming, or computationally 
expensive to obtain. Stage 1 of the VS (Section~\ref{sec:visualizer:al}) is 
one such classification task where $Y\in\{$visual correlation, no visual 
correlation$\}$. 
Classification tasks are both tedious and redundant, which 
necessitates intelligent selection of queries~\cite{settles2010}. What follows 
is an active learning literature review in Section~\ref{sec:al:litreview}, an 
overview of active learning methods and their algorithms in 
Section~\ref{sec:al:methods}, and a simulation study in 
Section~\ref{sec:al:simulations} to determine the method that is best-suited 
for usage with the VS in Chapter~\ref{ch:usage}'s financial application.

\input{ch-al/litreview}
\input{ch-al/methods}
\input{ch-al/simulations}

%streaming method (given 15random points, label them, then use AL criteria to 
%pick the next point to query)
%More feasible for the VS since we would have to know what each plot looks 
%like, and there's just too many plots (d choose 2?) to be computationally fast
%
% versus
%
%overall method (look at all points, label them, then use AL criteria to pick 
%the next point to query)